---
title: 'CQRS Rust'
subtitle: 'This is a demo'
date: 2018-06-30 00:00:00
description: This page is a demo that shows everything you can do inside portfolio and blog posts.
featured_image: '/images/demo/rust.png'
---


## CQRS Rust

* CQRS

After being exposed to DDD, Event-driven architecture and CQRS (Command-Response Segragation Principle) at 
BUX. I decided to dive deeper into clean architecture, looking into architectural patterns and educating
on best-practises at XType.



* Rust

Rust is an interesting language as it introduces a new paradigm different to languages such as Java/Go (garbage 
collection/.NET) and C/C++ (manual memory management). It is directly compiled to native code, but doesn't require
manual allocation of memory. It achieves this by having a rigourously strict mechanism called the borrow checker
which checks object usage during compile time, flagging any potential memory issues. Every reference has a so-called 
life-time assigned. 

In my free-time, I started with a small project with the aim of providing CQRS to the Rust ecosystem. It provides 
a simple framework to handle protobuf-based messages which represent commands, command responses and events. 

For more information refer to the project's [GitHub page](https://github.com/phil3k3/cqrs-rust)

<pre class="mermaid">
sequenceDiagram
    participant Command Server
    participant Command Service Client
    participant Event Listener A
    participant Event Listener B
    Command Service Client->>Command Server: Create user 'Bob'
    Note over Command Service Client,Command Server: Send CQRS command
    activate Command Server
    Command Server->>Command Service Client: Ok
    deactivate Command Server
    Note over Command Server,Command Service Client: CQRS command response (Ok/Not Ok)
    par Command Server to Event Listener A
        Command Server-->>Event Listener A: User 'Bob' created
    and Command Server to Event Listener B
        Command Server-->>Event Listener B: User 'Bob' created
    end
    Note over Command Server,Event Listener A: Produce a CQRS event
</pre>
